_pages/teaching/exercises/sql/dql/clinic.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Clinic SQL Exercise
permalink: /teaching/exercises/sql/dql/clinic/
crumbtitle: Clinic
---


1. What riders belong to the team ‘Os Velozes’? (name)

2. What rider won the ‘Porto - Aveiro’ stage? (name)
	  
3. What riders ciclistas raced the ‘Coimbra - Lisboa’ stage and what was their final position? Order the answer by their position. (name, position)

4. How many riders are there in each team? (team, total)

5. What is the total sum of times of each rider? (name, total)

6. What team, or teams, has a smaller sum of its riders total times? (team)

7. What is the average time in each stage? (description, average)

8. What stage, or stages, had the smaller average time? (description)

9. What was the time difference between the first and second rider in each stage? (description, difference)
  
10. What stage had the biggest time difference between the first and second rider to finish it, what rider won that stage and with how much lead time. (description, name, difference).

Commit message:

Added more sql exercises and solutions

_pages/teaching/exercises/sql/dql/clinic.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Clinic SQL Exercise
permalink: /teaching/exercises/sql/dql/clinic/
crumbtitle: Clinic
---

## Support

[SQLite3 Guide](/teaching/exercises/sql/sqlite/)


## Script

[Download Script Here](/teaching/exercises/sql/dql/scripts/clinic.sql)

## Exercises

1. List the physicians working in the clinic? (name)
2. List the names and addresses of the patients? (name, address)
3. List the dates of all appointments of patient 12345? (date)
4. What are the existing conditions in the database in alphabetical order? (designation)
5. What patients were seen on January 1, 2007? (number, name)
6. What conditions were diagnosed in appointment number 456? (designation)
7. How many appointments took place on January 1, 2007? (number)
8. How many times was each room used? (room, number)
9. How many times was each room used by the physician with number 99030? (room, number)
10. How many times was each room used by the physician Luca Moore? (room, number)
11. What rooms were used more than twice on 1 January 2007? (room)
12. What are the three most used rooms in that same day? (room)
13. What conditions have been diagnosed for patient 12345? (designation)
14. What patients have been diagnosed conditions that have also been diagnosed for patient 12345? (name)
