_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
include_in_menu: true
permalink: /about/
crumbtitle: About
---

## Curriculum Vitae

My [CV](https://github.com/silvae86/cv/raw/master/cv.pdf) is [open-source](https://github.com/silvae86/cv/), like my work and life philosophy.

## About me

![João Rocha da Silva](/assets/images/about/me.jpg){:class="float-left"}

I hold a PhD in Informatics Engineering from the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto, where I also lecture. I specialise on research data management, working on FEUP's InfoLab building Dendro, a solution to help researchers describe and share their datasets in a clear and reusable way.

I have experience in many programming languages Javascript-NodeJS (7+ years), AngularJS, PHP with MVC frameworks, etc.) On the mobile side, I am an experienced freelancer iOS Developer with several Apps published on the App Store.

On the DevOps side, I have experience with testing and automated deployment pipelines using Vagrant, Docker, Jenkins and Bash scripting overall. Continuous integration tools such as Git and GitHub, Travis, Coveralls, Codacy and etc. are a daily part of my work.

Past corporate experience includes two consulting companies: Deloitte and Sysnovare, in which I worked on SAP modules, business blueprinting and software processes restructuring.

I am also a self-taught mechanic on my spare time... and I love Toyota classic cars!

Google Scholar page: [Click me](https://scholar.google.pt/citations?user=GYoCHRYAAAAJ)

Open Source Projects: [Click me](https://github.com/silvae86)

## Where to find me

I work at FEUP's Information Systems Laboratory, also known as [InfoLab](http://infolab.fe.up.pt/).

It is at the [I123](https://sigarra.up.pt/feup/pt/instal_geral.espaco_view?pv_id=74570) Laboratory of the [Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto](https://sigarra.up.pt/feup/pt/web_page.Inicial).


##  Classic Car Mechanics

![Me driving my old AE86](/assets/images/about/ae86.jpg){:class="img-center fullwidth"}

*Me driving my old 1987 Corolla.*{:class="img-caption"}

I used to have a 1987 Toyota Corolla AE86, also known as Hachi-Roku or literally "eight-six" in Japanese. The car was stolen some years ago, so no more of that. Now I drive a 2003 Diesel Corolla Station Wagon---not exciting but nice to drive.

I have a YouTube channel covering car mechanics and repairs. I called it Toyota Mechanics Video Guides, and you can check it out on YouTube: [Click me](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbjjlEagh5_nduX_u-SkvdQ).

<!--

This is the base Jekyll theme. You can find out more info about customizing your Jekyll theme, as well as basic Jekyll usage documentation at [jekyllrb.com](https://jekyllrb.com/)

You can find the source code for Minima at GitHub:
[jekyll][jekyll-organization] /
[minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima)

You can find the source code for Jekyll at GitHub:
[jekyll][jekyll-organization] /
[jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)


[jekyll-organization]: https://github.com/jekyll

-->

Commit message:

Adding post about proxy cache in mac os x

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
include_in_menu: true
permalink: /about/
crumbtitle: About
---

## Curriculum Vitae

My [CV](https://github.com/silvae86/cv/raw/master/cv.pdf) is [open-source](https://github.com/silvae86/cv/), like my work and life philosophy.

## About me

![João Rocha da Silva](/assets/images/about/me.jpg){:class="float-left"}

I hold a PhD in Informatics Engineering from the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto, where I also lecture. I specialise on research data management, working on FEUP's InfoLab building Dendro, a solution to help researchers describe and share their datasets in a clear and reusable way.

I have experience in many programming languages Javascript-NodeJS (7+ years), AngularJS, PHP with MVC frameworks, etc.) On the mobile side, I am an experienced freelancer iOS Developer with several Apps published on the App Store.

On the DevOps side, I have experience with testing and automated deployment pipelines using Vagrant, Docker, Jenkins and Bash scripting overall. Continuous integration tools such as Git and GitHub, Travis, Coveralls, Codacy and etc. are a daily part of my work.

Past corporate experience includes two consulting companies: Deloitte and Sysnovare, in which I worked on SAP modules, business blueprinting and software processes restructuring.

I am also a self-taught mechanic on my spare time... and I love Toyota classic cars!

Google Scholar page: [Click me](https://scholar.google.pt/citations?user=GYoCHRYAAAAJ)

Open Source Projects: [Click me](https://github.com/silvae86)

## Where to find me

I work at FEUP's Information Systems Laboratory, also known as [InfoLab](http://infolab.fe.up.pt/).

It is at the [I123](https://sigarra.up.pt/feup/pt/instal_geral.espaco_view?pv_id=74570) Laboratory of the [Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto](https://sigarra.up.pt/feup/pt/web_page.Inicial).


##  Classic Car Mechanics

![Me driving my old AE86](/assets/images/about/ae86.jpg){:class="img-center fullwidth"}

*Me driving my old 1987 Corolla.*{:class="img-caption"}

I used to have a 1987 Toyota Corolla AE86, also known as Hachi-Roku or literally "eight-six" in Japanese. The car was stolen some years ago, so no more of that. Now I drive a 2003 Diesel Corolla Station Wagon---not exciting but nice to drive.

I have a YouTube channel covering car mechanics and repairs. I called it Toyota Mechanics Video Guides, and you can check it out on YouTube: [Click me](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbjjlEagh5_nduX_u-SkvdQ).

## Disclaimer

This blog contains my personal notes about programming, sysadmin, and other stuff. All materials and opinions are my own and do not reflect any point of view of my employer.

<!--

This is the base Jekyll theme. You can find out more info about customizing your Jekyll theme, as well as basic Jekyll usage documentation at [jekyllrb.com](https://jekyllrb.com/)

You can find the source code for Minima at GitHub:
[jekyll][jekyll-organization] /
[minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima)

You can find the source code for Jekyll at GitHub:
[jekyll][jekyll-organization] /
[jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)


[jekyll-organization]: https://github.com/jekyll

-->
