_pages/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/common/plan.md, before:

| Week | Dates          | Theory Class                                                 | Practical Class                                              |
| ---- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1    | 15-20 Sept.    | **Course Presentation**: Introduction to the web and databases<br />UML Class Diagrams: Classes and Associations<br /><br />Slides: [Presentation](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sibd) \| [UML Class Diagrams](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/uml-classes) | No practical class                                           |
| 2    | 23-27 Sept.    | **Relational Model**: Relations, tuples, attributes and constraints. Conversion from the UML model.<br />Slides: [Relational Model](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/relationalmodel) | UML <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/entity-relationship/) |
| 3    | 29 Sept-5 Oct. | **SQL**: Table creation. Data types and constraints. SQLite.<br />Slides: [SQL Definition](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sql-ddl) | Relational Model <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/solutions/entity-relationship/) \| <i class="fa fa-envelope fa-pulse delivery"></i>**Delivery** [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) Topics and Group Formation |
| 4    | 6-12 Oct.      | **SQL**: Database queries. Selecting, filtering, set operations and joins.<br />Slides: [SQL Query](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sql-dql) | SQL <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/sql/) |
| 5    | 13-19 Oct.     | **SQL**: Inserting, deleting and updating<br />Slides: [SQL Manipulation](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sql-dml) | SQL <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/sql/) |
| 6    | 20-26 Oct.     | **HTML 5**: Introduction, basic tags, tables, text formatting, common attributes and generic blocks. Forms, the semantic web, metadata and media tags.<br />Slides: [HTML 5](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/html5) | SQL <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/sql/) |
| 7    | 27 Oct.-2 Nov. | ***No classes (FEUP Week)***                                 |                                                              |
| 8    | 3-9 Nov.       | **CSS 3**: Introduction, basic selectors, properties. Positioning, specificity, inheritance.CSS 3<br />Slides: [CSS 3](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/css3) | HTML [Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/html/) \| <i class="fa fa-envelope fa-pulse delivery"></i>**Delivery** UML and Relational Model for the [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 9   | 10-16 Nov.     | **PHP**: Variables, loops, arrays and functions. Receiving values from HTML pages. Classes and objects. Database connections.<br />Slides: [PHP](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/php)<br /><br />Examples: [HTML & CSS](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/html-css.zip) \| [Listing](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/listing.zip) | CSS [Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/css/) \| [Solutions](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/solutions/css/) |
| 10   | 17-23 Nov.     | **PHP**: Code organization, forms, actions and register.<br /><br />Examples: [Organization & Register](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/organization-register.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) Information <br/>Accessing the [Server](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/help/servers/) |
| 11   | 24-30 Nov.     | **PHP**: Error handling and file uploads<br />Examples: [Login, Logout and Shopping Cart](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/login-cart.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 12   | 1-7 Dec.       | **PHP** Examples<br /><br />Examples: [Messages, Search and Pagination](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/messages-search-pagination.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 13   | 8-14 Dec.      | **PHP** Examples<br />Examples: [Orders](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/orders.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 14   | 15-20 Dec.     | **Q&A** (preparation for the final exam)                     | <i class="fa fa-envelope fa-pulse delivery"></i>**Delivery** Project Presentation                                     |

Commit message:

Added link to slides by Carla Lopes (temporary until I finish the new UML Slides)

_pages/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/common/plan.md, after:

| Week | Dates          | Theory Class                                                 | Practical Class                                              |
| ---- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1    | 15-20 Sept.    | **Course Presentation**: Introduction to the web and databases<br />UML Class Diagrams: Classes and Associations<br /><br />Slides: [Presentation](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sibd) \| [UML Class Diagrams](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/uml-classes) \| [Alt. UML Slides 1](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1_hGXTIVIQLHAwtZWNrwh1qARVYuS25CR) [Alt.UML Slides 2](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1AzI2PvqbNL-B6MVcEtazYgxZ_EBmU7C9) by [Carla Lopes](http://www.carlalopes.com)]| No practical class                                           |
| 2    | 23-27 Sept.    | **Relational Model**: Relations, tuples, attributes and constraints. Conversion from the UML model.<br />Slides: [Relational Model](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/relationalmodel) | UML <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/entity-relationship/) |
| 3    | 29 Sept-5 Oct. | **SQL**: Table creation. Data types and constraints. SQLite.<br />Slides: [SQL Definition](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sql-ddl) | Relational Model <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/solutions/entity-relationship/) \| <i class="fa fa-envelope fa-pulse delivery"></i>**Delivery** [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) Topics and Group Formation |
| 4    | 6-12 Oct.      | **SQL**: Database queries. Selecting, filtering, set operations and joins.<br />Slides: [SQL Query](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sql-dql) | SQL <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/sql/) |
| 5    | 13-19 Oct.     | **SQL**: Inserting, deleting and updating<br />Slides: [SQL Manipulation](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/sql-dml) | SQL <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/sql/) |
| 6    | 20-26 Oct.     | **HTML 5**: Introduction, basic tags, tables, text formatting, common attributes and generic blocks. Forms, the semantic web, metadata and media tags.<br />Slides: [HTML 5](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/html5) | SQL <br/>[Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/sql/) |
| 7    | 27 Oct.-2 Nov. | ***No classes (FEUP Week)***                                 |                                                              |
| 8    | 3-9 Nov.       | **CSS 3**: Introduction, basic selectors, properties. Positioning, specificity, inheritance.CSS 3<br />Slides: [CSS 3](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/css3) | HTML [Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/html/) \| <i class="fa fa-envelope fa-pulse delivery"></i>**Delivery** UML and Relational Model for the [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 9   | 10-16 Nov.     | **PHP**: Variables, loops, arrays and functions. Receiving values from HTML pages. Classes and objects. Database connections.<br />Slides: [PHP](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/php)<br /><br />Examples: [HTML & CSS](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/html-css.zip) \| [Listing](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/listing.zip) | CSS [Exercises](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/exercises/css/) \| [Solutions](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/solutions/css/) |
| 10   | 17-23 Nov.     | **PHP**: Code organization, forms, actions and register.<br /><br />Examples: [Organization & Register](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/organization-register.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) Information <br/>Accessing the [Server](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/help/servers/) |
| 11   | 24-30 Nov.     | **PHP**: Error handling and file uploads<br />Examples: [Login, Logout and Shopping Cart](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/login-cart.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 12   | 1-7 Dec.       | **PHP** Examples<br /><br />Examples: [Messages, Search and Pagination](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/messages-search-pagination.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 13   | 8-14 Dec.      | **PHP** Examples<br />Examples: [Orders](https://www.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/page/files/examples/php/esin/orders.zip) | [Project](/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project) |
| 14   | 15-20 Dec.     | **Q&A** (preparation for the final exam)                     | <i class="fa fa-envelope fa-pulse delivery"></i>**Delivery** Project Presentation                                     |
