_pages/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Project Information
include_in_menu: false
permalink: /teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project/
crumbtitle: Project
---

##  Objective

The development of a small dynamic website using the technologies studied during the course.

The assignment should be done in groups of 2 elements. The constitution of these groups should be proposed by the students themselves but approved by the teacher to ensure they are balanced.

The theme of the website should also be proposed by the students and approved by the teacher.

No frameworks or external libraries are allowed (jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular, etc...). You must write everything from scratch.


## Delivery

The only delivery will be the website itself:

- SQL script to create the database.
- All PHP, CSS, images and other files in a zipped file.
- A README.txt file in the root folder containing data about the authors and how to install the project at the FEUP web server [gnomo.fe.up.pt](http://gnomo.fe.up.pt).

**Delivery date**: Before the last practical class of the semester. 

**Presentation**: In the last practical class of the semester. 

**Format of presentation**: The presentation will be carried out by the students and to the teachers of the practical classes. No slides are required, and only the working website should be presented.

### Final checklist

- Did you run your whole script on a blank database in the Server? does it run without errors? 
- Did you validate your HTML and CSS? 
- Do all your web pages render correctly in the browser, without 404 errors (use the browser inspector for this)

## Words of advice 

Here is some advice for a successful and fun experience during the course.

### Do the database right, before moving to code

Without the proper foundation (a correct database schema) any code you write on top will not work properly. Finish and validate your database schema with your practical class professor before starting to code.

### Planning ahead

It is a good idea to work *smart* instead of *hard*. Split your problem into smaller ones, prioritize those, and add more features as time allows. Basic functionality like a list in a homepage or the login should **not** fail on the day of the demo, especially if you spent time implementing other "optional" features.

In the professional world, all client requirements are broken down into smaller features that must be prioritized, their effort estimated, and some even need to be dropped. What seems very interesting / essential today may not seem like a good idea two weeks from now, and may be dropped algether. 

### Keep it simple

Make the CSS simpler but cleaner (write less code and validate it as you go). If the website has so many issues that I cannot navigate it easily or even find all the features you implemented... your grade will suffer. Simple and working is always better than complex and buggy.

### Learn to use Git

[Git](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/git/#1) is a great way to keep track of code modifications within your team and merge changes into a clean, organized codebase. No more emailing ZIP files between your colleagues and copying and pasting the changes by hand!

GitHub is a safe place to put your code while you are writing it, just make sure to create a private repository. They provide free Pro accounts for students and educators, so I think you should register [here](https://education.github.com/students). 

BitBucket is also a great free alternative, with similar [benefits](https://bitbucket.org/product/education) for students and educators. Atlassian, the creators of BitBucket, provide a very nice and free GUI program, [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com), for working with any Git repository (not just BitBucket) if you do not wish to use the git command line. 

Note: I am not in any way affiliated with these solutions nor do I get any benefit for promoting them. You are free to use them or not.

### Avoid caffeine

Please do not wait until the last week to work seriously on the project. Coding (especially CSS) is not something you want to in all-nighter.

### Unequal sharing of work

If something is not going well in a project group, I need to know as soon as possible, and I trust you to tell me of any anomalies. I will not enquire about this, and in the absence of any complaints, I will assume everything is OK with the work group.

I will **not** accept complaints about this after the grades are published.

### Last-minute emails

Do not wait until the last weekend before the delivery of the work to start emailing me questions about it. I have a personal life too and you may not get an answer in time.

Good luck!

Commit message:

Added header with subjects list

_pages/teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Project Information
include_in_menu: false
permalink: /teaching/2020/ESIN_SIBD/project/
crumbtitle: Project
---

##  Objective

The development of a small dynamic website using the technologies studied during the course.

The assignment should be done in groups of 2 elements. The constitution of these groups should be proposed by the students themselves but approved by the teacher to ensure they are balanced.

The theme of the website should also be proposed by the students and approved by the teacher.

No frameworks or external libraries are allowed (jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular, etc...). You must write everything from scratch.


## Delivery

The only delivery will be the website itself:

- SQL script to create the database.
- All PHP, CSS, images and other files in a zipped file.
- A README.txt file in the root folder containing data about the authors and how to install the project at the FEUP web server [gnomo.fe.up.pt](http://gnomo.fe.up.pt).

**Delivery date**: Before the last practical class of the semester. 

**Presentation**: In the last practical class of the semester. 

**Format of presentation**: The presentation will be carried out by the students and to the teachers of the practical classes. No slides are required, and only the working website should be presented.

### Penalty for delays

When students do not deliver their work within the deadline, those groups will be penalized with a subtraction of 2 points (out of the 10 total obtainable in the practical work component) **per day of delay**. Example: if you deliver your work 2 days late, your maximum grade will be 6 in the practical component of this subject.

Practical works submitted 5 or more days after the deadline will not be considered and the group in question will receive a classification of zero. 

### Final checklist

- Did you run your whole script on a blank database in the Server? does it run without errors? 
- Did you validate your HTML and CSS? 
- Do all your web pages render correctly in the browser, without 404 errors (use the browser inspector for this)
- Does your ZIP file actually contain everything that is expected?

## Words of advice 

Here is some advice for a successful and fun experience during the course.

### Do the database right, before moving to code

Without the proper foundation (a correct database schema) any code you write on top will not work properly. Finish and validate your database schema with your practical class professor before starting to code.

### Planning ahead

It is a good idea to work *smart* instead of *hard*. Split your problem into smaller ones, prioritize those, and add more features as time allows. Basic functionality like a list in a homepage or the login should **not** fail on the day of the demo, especially if you spent time implementing other "optional" features.

In the professional world, all client requirements are broken down into smaller features that must be prioritized, their effort estimated, and some even need to be dropped. What seems very interesting / essential today may not seem like a good idea two weeks from now, and may be dropped algether. 

### Keep it simple

Make the CSS simpler but cleaner (write less code and validate it as you go). If the website has so many issues that I cannot navigate it easily or even find all the features you implemented... your grade will suffer. Simple and working is always better than complex and buggy.

### Learn to use Git

[Git](https://web.fe.up.pt/~arestivo/presentation/git/#1) is a great way to keep track of code modifications within your team and merge changes into a clean, organized codebase. No more emailing ZIP files between your colleagues and copying and pasting the changes by hand!

GitHub is a safe place to put your code while you are writing it, just make sure to create a private repository. They provide free Pro accounts for students and educators, so I think you should register [here](https://education.github.com/students). 

BitBucket is also a great free alternative, with similar [benefits](https://bitbucket.org/product/education) for students and educators. Atlassian, the creators of BitBucket, provide a very nice and free GUI program, [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com), for working with any Git repository (not just BitBucket) if you do not wish to use the git command line. 

Note: I am not in any way affiliated with these solutions nor do I get any benefit for promoting them. You are free to use them or not.

### Avoid caffeine

Please do not wait until the last week to work seriously on the project. Coding (especially CSS) is not something you want to in all-nighter.

### Unequal sharing of work

If something is not going well in a project group, I need to know as soon as possible, and I trust you to tell me of any anomalies. I will not enquire about this, and in the absence of any complaints, I will assume everything is OK with the work group.

I will **not** accept complaints about this after the grades are published.

### Last-minute emails

Do not wait until the last weekend before the delivery of the work to start emailing me questions about it. I have a personal life too and you may not get an answer in time.

Good luck!
