_pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: SQL DDL Solutions (SQLite)
permalink: /teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/
crumbtitle: SQL DDL Solutions (SQLite)
tags: solutions sql exercises sqlite3 scripts
---

## Solutions

in construction


| **Exercise** <br />(Relational schema to be converted)       | **Solution** <br />(Converted sqlite3 script)                |
| :----------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Veterinary Clinic](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#veterinary-clinic) | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/veterinary_clinic.sql %}) |
| [Auto Repair Shop](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#auto-repair-shop)   | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/auto_repair_shop.sql %}) |
| [Deliveries](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#deliveries)         | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/deliveries.sql %}) |
| [Restaurant](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#restaurant)         | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/restaurant.sql %}) |


## Notes From Classes

### 2020/2021

[Veterinary Clinic (written by hand)]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/class_notes/veterinary_clinic.sql %})

[Veterinary Clinic (dumped from the SQLite GUI)]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/class_notes/veterinary_clinic_gui.sql %})

Commit message:

Fixed link to sql ddl solutions in the course plans

_pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: SQL DDL Solutions (SQLite)
permalink: /teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/
crumbtitle: SQL DDL Solutions (SQLite)
tags: solutions sql exercises sqlite3 scripts
---

## Solutions

| **Exercise** <br />(Relational schema to be converted)       | **Solution** <br />(Converted sqlite3 script)                |
| :----------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Veterinary Clinic](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#veterinary-clinic) | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/veterinary_clinic.sql %}) |
| [Auto Repair Shop](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#auto-repair-shop)   | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/auto_repair_shop.sql %}) |
| [Deliveries](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#deliveries)         | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/deliveries.sql %}) |
| [Restaurant](/teaching/solutions/uml/conversion_to_relational/#restaurant)         | [SQL file]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/restaurant.sql %}) |


If you spot any mistakes or have suggestions, contact the professors of the practical class.

## Notes From Classes

These files are here just as a record of past activities or account of work carried out in practical classes. **The "official" solutions are the ones upstairs.**

### 2019/2020

[Veterinary Clinic (written by hand)]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/class_notes/veterinary_clinic.sql %})

[Veterinary Clinic (dumped from the SQLite GUI)]({% link _pages/teaching/solutions/sql/ddl/class_notes/veterinary_clinic_gui.sql %})
